README.md, before:

# Manual for `send_template_mail.py`

This script enables you to send personalized mails to multiple persons, taking the data 
from a single CSV (comma separated value) file and another template mail. Its primary 
use case is to send the ESI (`ErstSemesterInformant`) to the new first-years. Usually 
their data are handed to us in an excel file which can be converted easily to a CSV 
file.

Since the number of new first-years is growing continuously (even after the beginning of 
the semester) the `ESI` must be sent in multiple waves in order to be delivered as soon 
as possible but also to be sent to everyone. The script can save the `MD5`-Hash of used 
mail addresses, so you're able to use the updated table of first-years data without 
resending mails. See the example section.

This manual is only an extension of the help message of the script 
(`send_template_mail.py --help`) which should be your starting point in case of 
questions.

 A `resources` folder should be located next to the real location of the script (*real* 
 since the path you call might be a symlink).

## Command line arguments from files

Since the script offers a lot of command line arguments, some of which you might want to 
reuse, you can pass any amount of command line arguments via text files. Simply specify 
the file names via `@<filename>`, for example if you'd like to test the send process 
without actually sending the mails you can use a python debug server (see 
`help`-message) and specify the necessary args via `send_template_mail.py [...] 
@resources/smtp_test_args [...]`. Inside the file you must the `--long-option=value` 
format.
The `.gitignore` of this repo explicitly contains the path `/local_resources/` 
which you can use to store your local settings.

## Examples

### Filters

The goal of the filters is that you are able to use the given CSV file as given and do 
not have to filter or modify its entries.

In 2018 all female first-years received a slight different mail mentioning a
mentoring program and the corresponding flyer as attachment. The CSV file had 
a column called `Geschlecht` with the values `männlich` and `weiblich` (because it's 
only binary... different discussion^^) so the corresponding script calls would be:

```shell
./send_template_mail.py file.csv 'Subject' male_template.txt --filter Geschlecht '^m' 
```

```shell
./send_template_mail.py file.csv 'Subject' female_template.txt --filter Geschlecht '^w'
```

#### Full Example

Try it with the given test data inside the resources folder and a debug server.

```shell
./send_template_mail.py resources/test_data.csv 'Subject' resources/test.template \
  -e Mail @resources/smtp_test_args
```

Your debug server should have received two mails, one should be base64 due to the `ä` 
inside `männlich`.

Let's try female only

```shell
./send_template_mail.py resources/test_data.csv 'Subject' resources/test.template \
  -e Mail @resources/smtp_test_args --filter Geschl ^w
```

Only one mail is sent and the script tells you which entries were skipped due to the 
filter (`^w` only matches strings starting with a `w`).

### Hash file

If you forgot to specify the hash file (and obviously ignored the corresponding warning) 
you do not have to create it by hand, instead rerun the script but use a debugging smtp 
server to not send the mails (again, see `help` message) and this time pass a path to 
the hash file.

### 2018

The full call has been:

```shell
$ ./send_template_mail.py erstis_m_final.csv \
  'Informationen zum Studienbeginn und Vorkursen' studenten.template -e Mail \
  -f "Student Council <redacted@example.de>" -a ~/Downloads/ESI.pdf \
  ~/Downloads/Vorkurse_und_StART.pdf | tee erstis_m.log
```

- The `filter` functionality was not present yet, therefore the data had to be separated 
into male and female first-years.
- The `-l/--log-output` was not present yet and the logging messages were written to 
STDOUT the saving of the it via `tee`
- Same goes for the hash-file

Commit message:

Add required python version to README

README.md, after:

# Manual for `send_template_mail.py`

> Currently the script requires Python 3.6 or to newer due to the usage of f-strings.
> Porting to Version 3.5 should be quite easy, just open an issue if it affects you.

This script enables you to send personalized mails to multiple persons, taking the data 
from a single CSV (comma separated value) file and another template mail. Its primary 
use case is to send the ESI (`ErstSemesterInformant`) to the new first-years. Usually 
their data are handed to us in an excel file which can be converted easily to a CSV 
file.

Since the number of new first-years is growing continuously (even after the beginning of 
the semester) the `ESI` must be sent in multiple waves in order to be delivered as soon 
as possible but also to be sent to everyone. The script can save the `MD5`-Hash of used 
mail addresses, so you're able to use the updated table of first-years data without 
resending mails. See the example section.

This manual is only an extension of the help message of the script 
(`send_template_mail.py --help`) which should be your starting point in case of 
questions.

 A `resources` folder should be located next to the real location of the script (*real* 
 since the path you call might be a symlink).

## Command line arguments from files

Since the script offers a lot of command line arguments, some of which you might want to 
reuse, you can pass any amount of command line arguments via text files. Simply specify 
the file names via `@<filename>`, for example if you'd like to test the send process 
without actually sending the mails you can use a python debug server (see 
`help`-message) and specify the necessary args via `send_template_mail.py [...] 
@resources/smtp_test_args [...]`. Inside the file you must the `--long-option=value` 
format.
The `.gitignore` of this repo explicitly contains the path `/local_resources/` 
which you can use to store your local settings.

## Examples

### Filters

The goal of the filters is that you are able to use the given CSV file as given and do 
not have to filter or modify its entries.

In 2018 all female first-years received a slight different mail mentioning a
mentoring program and the corresponding flyer as attachment. The CSV file had 
a column called `Geschlecht` with the values `männlich` and `weiblich` (because it's 
only binary... different discussion^^) so the corresponding script calls would be:

```shell
./send_template_mail.py file.csv 'Subject' male_template.txt --filter Geschlecht '^m' 
```

```shell
./send_template_mail.py file.csv 'Subject' female_template.txt --filter Geschlecht '^w'
```

#### Full Example

Try it with the given test data inside the resources folder and a debug server.

```shell
./send_template_mail.py resources/test_data.csv 'Subject' resources/test.template \
  -e Mail @resources/smtp_test_args
```

Your debug server should have received two mails, one should be base64 due to the `ä` 
inside `männlich`.

Let's try female only

```shell
./send_template_mail.py resources/test_data.csv 'Subject' resources/test.template \
  -e Mail @resources/smtp_test_args --filter Geschl ^w
```

Only one mail is sent and the script tells you which entries were skipped due to the 
filter (`^w` only matches strings starting with a `w`).

### Hash file

If you forgot to specify the hash file (and obviously ignored the corresponding warning) 
you do not have to create it by hand, instead rerun the script but use a debugging smtp 
server to not send the mails (again, see `help` message) and this time pass a path to 
the hash file.

### 2018

The full call has been:

```shell
$ ./send_template_mail.py erstis_m_final.csv \
  'Informationen zum Studienbeginn und Vorkursen' studenten.template -e Mail \
  -f "Student Council <redacted@example.de>" -a ~/Downloads/ESI.pdf \
  ~/Downloads/Vorkurse_und_StART.pdf | tee erstis_m.log
```

- The `filter` functionality was not present yet, therefore the data had to be separated 
into male and female first-years.
- The `-l/--log-output` was not present yet and the logging messages were written to 
STDOUT the saving of the it via `tee`
- Same goes for the hash-file
